---
title: "Demo EP"
description: "A collection of music I produced for my application at UdeM's Digital Music Production program"
date: 2021-05-05
color: "music"
type: "EP"
---
import AudioPlayer from "../../components/AudioPlayer";

The *Demo EP* is an EP I never released. It is composed of four songs I produced back in 2020 and
2021 in order to apply and be accepted in the *Digital Music Production Bachelor* at the
University of Montreal. I found the time to finish the EP and bring it to a releasable state, but I
am still very proud of the tracks made for it. Each track were experiments I was making with
different ideas or instruments. The four songs on this EP are:

1. Running
2. Ballade
3. F E E L I N G S
4. Far West

## Running

*Running* is the first song on the Demo EP. It is a mix between hip-hop and rock. This also was the
last production made for the demos I would send the University of Montreal in order to get into
their music program. The song contains a few orchestral instruments for the melodies and it's mixed
with more classic hip-hop drums sound organized in a more rock style.

The song title comes from one of my friends, who, upon hearing the song for the first time, said
she wanted me to send it to her so she could run while listening to it. I found the idea so funny
at first, that I named the song after it. It was the first time someone wanted to listen to my
music for reasons other than just seeing what I had done, which was a great feeling.

<AudioPlayer audioSrc="../../../public/music/demo_ep/Running.wav" client:load />

## Ballade

*Ballade* is the second track on the EP. On this production, I decided to experiment with creating
my own instruments, so I created two 808's by using oscillators. I created a first sub 808, which
is used to give more of a punch on low frequencies, this one hits low notes. I left it mostly raw,
only cutting frequencies that were too high to be a bass. Then I created a bass that would be a
little higher pitched and be really distorted to contrast with the bass already in the sample I
used. That bass was done using a different oscillator plugin but kept the same idea, it just uses a
different wave shape. I also tried creating my own kick for this song by using the same process.

I wanted to use this song to experiment with silences in a song. To facilitate the task, I decided
to use a sample made by *Cymatics* which I got from their free collection. I think the strength of
this production is its silences, they compliment the vibe I was going for.

## F E E L I N G S

*F E E L I N G S* is the third song on the *Demo EP*. With this song, I again experimented with the
creations of a few sounds, like the bass but also the synth used for the melody and the rythmic
sound we can hear throughout the whole track that hits every beat. I once again played with
oscillators and syths to create my instruments and sound and added a few effects like reverb and
distortion and EQ's.

The song also uses a midi of a guitar on which I played and recorded a melody using a midi
keyboard. I once again experimented with silences. This track was a mix of all my experiments for
this project, and I was left very proud of the results.

## Far West

The last song on the EP is *Far West*. In this song, I was trying to experiment with effects on the
sound of the instruments and creating sounds from differents instruments. One such example is the
sort of train whistle heard in the back of the chorus. It is actually a chord played on an organ,
to which I added a "old phone" EQ effect and modify the frequency the EQ would let pass until it
kind of sounded like a train whistle. This train whistle is also the reason the track is called far
west.

I also experimented with the effect on the guitar melodies. Both the melody and counter melody are
played on the same 12 string guitar. I also added some distortion to the bass.

This track also goes to show that one of the main things I liked playing and experimenting with
back then was silences, especially after a drop or in the chorus. I think that this track was a
good closing track for the EP because it encapsulates well the ideas of what I was exploring
without standing out too much.
